1. Make and send invitations. Buy anime-themed invitations online by entering “anime invitations” into a search engine. Another option is to make the invitations yourself. Find templates by searching online for “printable anime cards.” You may want to pair the template with cool stationery from a local office supply store.
For example, you can find premade anime invitations on Amazon, or order personalized anime invitations on Etsy.
You can also use an online platform to send out your invitations. Try to get them out 6 weeks in advance so your guests can make room in their calendars for the party.

2. Buy or make a costume. Choose one of your favorite anime characters or one that is well known. Or, you may want to pick an anime character because they have a costume you’d like to replicate. Each anime character tends to have multiple stand-out features or accessories you can imitate.
Examples of popular male anime characters are L, Edward ELRIC and Kakashi Hatake. For L, you could wear a thick, black wig and carry a magnifying glass and/or sweets (L is a detective with a sweet tooth). To dress as Edward ELRIC, wear a shaggy blonde wig and carry alchemist accessories. For a Kakashi Hatake costume, wear a spiky gray wig, a headband, and a vest.[1]
Examples of popular female anime characters are: Asuna, Mirajane Strauss, and Akame. To dress like Asuna, wear long, light blue hair, fake elf ears and a white outfit. To resemble Mirajane Strauss, wear a long, whitish blonde wig with a side part, and blue contacts. For an Akame costume, wear a black wig that is long in the back and short in the front. Wear red contacts.[2]
Make sure that your guests know what the expectations are for dressing up; that way, some people won't show up in complex costumes while other people only wear a wig and a hat.

3. Prepare music playlists. Find anime songs online. Make some playlists that will last about as long as you think the party might run. Set up speakers or plan to stream the music from a Smart TV with an internet connection.
Play regular and/or anime music. If you're looking for music to play, try J-Pop, theme songs to animes, or Vocaloid music, such as songs from Hatsune Miku.
Think about the demographic of the guests attending your party—make sure that there's something for everyone!

4. Consider playing anime on TV or DVD. You can play it with the sound low or off if you don’t want it to compete with the music. If you have a projector you can use with a DVD player or computer, you can project anime onto the wall. You may want to watch some classic anime shows like Yu Yu Hakusho, Pokémon or Dragon Ball Z.

5. Make party favors. For a Japanese-American vibe, put party favors in takeout containers. Tie pieces of ribbon around them that match the color theme of your party. Tie chopsticks into the knot or bow in the ribbon at the top of each box.[3]
Items you can include in the boxes are anime keychains, candy, erasers, temporary tattoos, or whatever you like! There are many different kinds of anime merchandise available online.